Domain 1 > Chapter 1
AWS Backup and Recovery
AWS Architect Professional

Whitepaper: http://d36cz9buwru1tt.cloudfront.net/AWS_Disaster_Recovery.pdf

* Disaster Recovery
    * DR is about preparing for and recovering from a disaster.
* Recovery Time Object (RTO)
    * Amount of time that it takes for your business to recover from an outage.
    * Can include the time for trying to fix the problem without a recovery, the recovery itself,  and the communication to users.
* Recovery Point Objective (RPO)
    * The maximum period of time in which data might be lost from an IT service due to a major incident.
    * How much data can your organization afford to lose? An hour? A day? None at all?
* Traditional Approaches
    * N+1 approach and has different levels of off-site duplication
* Why AWS for DR?
    * Minimum hardware.
    * Opex model (Pay as you use)
    * Automate disaster recovery deployment
* Services
    * Regions
    * Storage
        * S3 - 99.999999999% durability (11 9s)
        * Glacier
        * EBS
        * Direct Connect
        * AWS Storage Gateway
            * Gateway-cached volumes - store primary data and cache most recently used data locally
            * Gateway-stored volumes - store entire dataset on site and async replicate data to S3
            * Gateway-virtual tape library - Store your virtual tapes in S3 or Glacier
    * Compute
        * EC2
        * EC2 VM Import Connector
    * Network
        * Route53
        * ELB
        * VPC
        * Amazon Direct Connect
    * Databases
        * RDS
        * DynamoDB
        * RedShift
    * Orchestration
        * CloudFormation
        * ElasticBeanstalk
        * OpsWork
* DR Scenarios
    * Backup & Restore (Longer RTO and Longer RPO)
        * S3 + Glacier
        * AWS Direct Connect
        * AWS Import/Export
        * Storage Gateway
        * Steps:
            * Select appropriate tool
            * appropriate retention policy
    * Pilot Light
        * Minimal version of an environment is always running in the cloud.
        * When time comes for recovery, you can rapidly provision a full-scale production environment around the critical one.
        * RDS + EC2 (AMIs)
        * Preallocated Elastic IP, Elastic Network Interfaces, Mac Addresses, ELB, Update DNS
        * Data Mirroring replication from corporate DB to AWS
        * Steps (setup):
            * Setup EC2 instances
            * Custom software packages are available
            * Prepare AMIs
            * Regularly run these servers, test and software updates.
            * Consider automating the provisioning of AWS resources. (eg. cloud formation, trigger lambda to run these templates)
        * Steps (Recovery)
            * Start EC2 instances
            * Resize database instances
            * Additonal database/data store instances, Multi ZA.
            * Change DNS
            * Install and configure any non-AMI based systems, ideally in an automated way.
    * Warm Standby
        * A scaled-down of a fully functional environment is always running the cloud.
        * extends the pilot light elements and preparation, and future reduces the recovery time.
        * Horizontal scaling is preferred over vertical scaling.
        * Steps( setup)
            * Setup EC@ instance and replicate
            * create and maintain AMI
            * run application using minimal footprint (t2 micro etc)
            * Patch and update software and configuration in line with your live environment
        * Steps (recovery)
            * Increase the size of EC2 fleet.
            * Start apps on larger EC instance types
            * manually change the DNS records
            * consider auto-scaling
            * add resilience or scale up database.
    * Multi Site (RTO ~= RPO)
        * Active-Active configuration on premise and on AWS
        * May run 50-50 traffic.
        * In case of DR - adjust DNS weighting and send all traffic to AWS servers.
        * Steps (Setup)
            * set AWS and duplicate production
            * setup DNS weighting
        * Steps (recovery)
            * Manually DNS adjust
            * application logic to switch DB queries
* Summary
￼
* Exam Tips
    * RTOs and RPOs and asked which AWS services your should choose. All choices may be correct, just some are more correct than others.
* Key Techs
    * S3 (11 9s)
    * Glacier (Atleast 3 hours)
    * EBS - Create point-in-time snapshots of data volumes
    * DynamoDB - Offers cross region replication
    * RDS - Ability to run read replica in another region
    * Redshift - Snapshot warehouse to S3 within same region or copied to another region.



