Domain 1> Chapter 3
Storage Gateway
AWS Architect Professional

Docs: https://aws.amazon.com/storagegateway/

OLD name/ NEW name conventions in exam, etc.

* How to backup my data at an enterprise level?
    * Backup data to S3 using API calls.
* Storage Gateway 2017
    * File Interface (File Gateway)
        * Use the NFS protocol. (Similar to NAS)
        * Provides virtual fileserver on S3
        * S3 buckets is available as an NFS mount point
        * Most recently used data is cached on the gateway
        * Data transfer between data center and AWS is fully managed by AWS
        * Unlimited amount of storage. Max file size is 5TB.
    * Volume Interface
        * Gateway-Cached Volumes (old name)
            * iSCSI based block storage
            * Store primary data in S3 and retain your frequently accessed data locally.
            * Advantages
                * Substantial cost savings on primary storage
                * Minimize need to scale on premise storage
            * Each volume can store up to 32TB in Size
            * 32 Volumes supported.
            * 1 PetaByte can be stored (32 * 32)
        * Gateway-Stored Volumes (old name)
            * iSCSI based block storage
            * When you need low-latency access to entire data set.
            * Each volume can store up to 16TB
            * 32 Volumes supported.
            * 512TB of data can be stored (32 * 16)
    * Tape Interface (NEW)
        * Gateway-Virtual Tape Library (old name)
            * iSCSI based virtual tape solution
            * Get rid of entire tape library infrastructure.
            * Backed by:
                * S3
                    * 1500 virtual tapes max (1PB)
                * Virtual Tape Shelf (VTS) backed by Glacier
                    * Unlimited tapes
            * Important to note the recovery times. Recovery can take up to 24 hours for glacier.
* General Facts
    * Can be deployed on premise or as an EC2 instance
    * Can schedule snapshots
    * Storage Gateway can be used with Direct Connect
    * Can implement bandwidth throttling - (eg. allow only 100kbps for replication)
    * On-premise needs either VMWare's ESXi or Hyper-V
    * Hardware: (On-premise Storage Gateway Virtual Machine requirements are 4 or 8vCPUs, 12GB of RAM and 80GB of VM image and system data storage.)
        * 4-8 vCPI
        * 7.5 GB RAM
        * 75 Volume size
        * Additional Storage for volumes:
            * gateway-cached:
                * storage for local cache and upload buffer.
            * gateway-stored
                * storage for entire dataset. 1GB to 1TB.
            * gateway-vtl
                * storage for local cache and upload buffer
    * Networking
        * open 443 port
        * allow 80 (internally)
        * port 3260 (iSCSI)
        * port 53 for DNS
* Encryption
    * Data in transit is SSL
* Gateway-Cached and Gateway-Stored Volumes
    * point in time incremental snapshots in S3 or EBS
    * can be scheduled or ad-hoc basis
    * Gateway Stored Snapshots
        * Snapshot provides a durable off-site backup
        * new Gateway-Stored volume can be created from snapshot in event of recovery of backup
        * A snapshot of Gateway-Stored volume can also be used as the starting point for new EBS volume
    * Gateway Cached Snapshots
        * Preserve versions of your data
* Gateway-Virtual Tape Library Retrieval
    * The virtual tape containing your data must be stored in a Virtual Tape Library(VTL) before it can be accessed. Access to virtual tapes in your VTL is instantaneous.
    * If virtual tape is in Virtual Tape Shelf(VTS), data must be  retrieved first from (VTS). It takes about 24 hours for the virtual tape to be available in the selected VTL.
    * RTO is low for VTL, high for VTS.
    * VTL Supports: (Nice to know)
        * Symantec
            * NetworkBackup 7.x
            * Backup Exec 2012, 2014, 15
        * Microsoft System Center 2012 R2 Data Protection Manager
        * Veeam
            * Backup & Replication v7, v8
        * Dell
            * NetVault Backup 10.0
* Exam Tips:
    * File Gateway
    * Volume Gateway
        * Cached (Gateway-Cached)
        * Stored (Gateway-Stored)
    * Tape Gateway
        * Gateway-Virtual Tape Library
    * VTL - Instantaneous
    * VTS 24 hours
    * All data in transit is AES-256
    * Snapshots can be scheduled
    * Bandwidth can be throttled (good for remote sites)
    * You need a storage gateway in each site if using multiple locations


